---
title: "Lab homework 3 : Unity Roll-A-Ball"
date: 2021-02-28T15:56:17+01:00
draft: false
---

In the Roll-a-ball tutorial i didn't really had difficulties because the tutorial is pretty well explained. But I learned many usefull things about Unity. The goal of this project is to create a game in which the player controls a ball in a closed field thanks to the directionnal arrows. The ball have to hit cubes in order to collect them and increase the player's score. First I learned the main component of a scene : the game objects, the lights, the materials, etc... . Then I learned how to play with the physics of a GameObject by using his rigidbody and applying forces to it. We also learned one of the most important component of a Unity project : the scripts. A script is a code with parameters, in which some functions are called when an event occur. So here we just create a script to apply forces on the ball when input events occur. In the next part we create a new script to make the camera moving with the ball. And here I discovered another important element : the Transform component, it contains the position, rotation and scale of an object. We manipulate this component in scripts and it's really powerfull because it give a lot of controll on GameObjects. Later I discovered the prefabs, it allows to create several similar objects and modify all of them at the same time. Then I learned how to manage collision by using the OnTriggerEnter() function and by using some parameters such as IsTrigger, isKinematic or UseGravity. When a GameObject with IsTrigger collides with a GameObject with the function OnTriggerEnter() in a script, this function is called. An object with IsKinematic is independant of forces. Then I learned how to display text. I understood a lot of Unity basics in this tutorial 

